javascript :-
        - javascript is a "scripting language".

        - first name was "livescript"

        - It is also called "object based scripting language".

        - It was created by Branden Eich at Netscape.

        - It was first released in 1990 as livescript. 
        
        - later it was named as javascript in 1995.

        - It is "world's most populer programming language".

        - It is the "programming language of web".

        - It is easy to learn.


what is an object? :-
        - Object is a "logical" or "physical" items.

physicals ? :- 
        - for ex, person, chair, table, book, pen, animals

logical ? :-
        - payment, date and time

javascript created as 3 ways :-
        1) inline - created in event.
        2) internal - write in <script> tag.
        3) external - create an external file with filename.js extension. and link with <script> tag.

Note :-  
        javascript written in <script> tag. in <head> and <body> tag. mainly written in <head> tag.

Why javascript stydy ? :-
        1) HTML - to defined the "content" of web page.
        2) CSS - to "specifiy" the layout of web page.
        3) Javascript - to program the "behavior" of web page.

differant between java and javascript ? :-

        java :-
                 1) java is programming language.
                 2) it was invebted by "Jmes Gosling" and Developed by "Sun Microsystems".
                 3) it was first relesed in 1995 and several versions have been launched since then.

        javascript :-
                 1) javascript is a "scripting language".
                 2) It was created by Branden Eich at Netscape.
                 3) It was first released in 1990 as livescript. 
                 4) later it was named as javascript in 1995.
        

        java :-                                            javascript :-
        
1) It is fully object oriented programming lang.        1) It is fully object based scripting lang.
2) It support all the features of OOPs.                 2) It does not support all the features of OOPs.
3) It used objects to perform tasks.                    3) It is mostly function based.
4) Java application or programs needs                   4) javascript needed only browser to run and
   java virtual Machine and JRE to run.                    need to be complied.
5) Installation of these are needed for compilation.    5) So there is no need of initial setup.
6) java system are similar to C and C++ lang.           6) java system are similar to C lang.
7) It used classes and objects.                         7) It naming conventions are similar to java.
8) It is used to develop all type of application.       8) It is used to make web sites and web applications only.
9) It includes desktop application as wll as            9) It is used to implement client sites logics.
   mobile application.